How many seas are there in the world? Scientists count 63 seas. Among them, 25 belong to the Pacific Ocean, 16 - to the Atlantic, 11 - to the Indian, 11 - to the Arctic. There are also seas on the Moon: the sea of Rain, the sea of Nectar, etc. Lunar seas are called flat areas of the Moon located below its surface. Scientists believe that the Earth is the only planet in the Solar System that has water in a liquid state.
The moon is the only natural satellite of the Earth. According to scientists, the Moon used to be part of the Earth, which broke off after a large cosmic body hit it billions of years ago. On the moon, the gravity is there, but so weak that astronauts, even in heavy space gear, can jump high. If a person on Earth weighs, for example, 60 kg, then his weight on the Moon is reduced to about 10 kg!
Kiwis are birds that can't fly. Female south kiwis, with a height of up to 40 cm, weigh up to 3 kg; males are noticeably smaller, they weigh about 2.3 kg. Several species of kiwi are listed in the International Red Book. The egg of the southern kiwi weighs up to 450 g. Kiwis grow slowly: only in 4-5 years they reach the size of adult birds. Birds lay several eggs at a time, and both parents hatch them at the same time.
The largest cave system in the world is considered to be Mamontova, it was discovered about 200 years ago in the basin of a tributary of the Mississippi River. It is a complex multi-storey maze consisting of grottos, passages and wells located on five tiers. By 1900, about 200 passages of the Mammoth Cave were known. Now it is a National Park, which is included in the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
Mount Rushmore near Keystone, South Dakota, is famous for having the large heads of four presidents of the United States of America carved into its rock: George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt, and Abraham Lincoln. $ 5,000 was allocated for the construction. Subsequently, the project received federal support, and intensive work began. It took 14 years to create the monument.
The largest land animals are African elephants. Their height reaches 3.5-4 m, body length-6-7. 5 m, and weight-up to 7 tons. The hallmark of each of them is a long trunk, huge ears and massive tusks. Indian elephants are smaller than African elephants, but their size is also impressive - males reach a height of 2.5-3.5 m. It is the Indian elephants that become family members to be played with and cared for.
The Statue of Liberty is jokingly called America's most famous lady. A famous French lady, the monument was made in France, after which it was transported across the ocean. The statue was assembled on the island of Elpis, which is now called Liberty Island. The height of the statue is 46 meters, and the pedestal rises to 47 meters. Inside the crown of the statue is an observation deck.
The Taj Mahal mausoleum Palace looks so light, as if it hangs between heaven and earth. Over 22 years, more than 20,000 builders from India, Persia, Turkey, Venice and Samarkand worked on the tomb. The result exceeded all expectations — the marble castle seemed weightless and this despite the fact that for a long time the Taj Mahal was the tallest building in India. Its height, together with the main dome, is 74 meters.
The first cats appeared 30 million years ago. Today, wildcats live everywhere except Australia and Antarctica. There are 41 species of wild cats, 4 of them are included in the subfamily of panthers: lion, tiger, jaguar and leopard. Cats have sharp claws for grabbing prey. In most species, the claws retract into the paw when they are not needed. the cheetah's claws do not retract - so the animal can slow down and stop on the run.
The Great Wall of China is the only creation of human hands that can be seen from space. 1 The total length of the wall was 9,500 km and the distance between the starting and ending points . about 2.5 thousand kmos, its height is about 6 M, and in some areas-up to 10 m, for the construction of a whole army of 300 thousand soldiers was involved. Besides that. almost a million slaves, prisoners of war, and peasants were driven here.
Skis are a device for moving a person through the snow. They are two long wooden or plastic slats of 150-220 centimeters with pointed and curved toes. Skis move around using their ability to glide through the snow. Skis were invented by the northern peoples in the process of migration to areas with a cold climate and long winters. Now distinguish between mountain and cross-country skiing.
All seas differ in the temperature of the water on the surface. Best of all, the sun warms the seas located near the equator. For example, in the Red Sea, the temperature reaches +35 degrees! For comparison: the Black Sea warms up to +23 degrees in summer, and in winter its temperature drops below 40 degrees, and it is too cold to swim in it. The farther away from the equator, the more the temperature of the seas decreases.
The Egyptian pharaohs started building pyramids 4,700 years ago. Their founder was the mathematician and architect Imhotep. The greatest of the Egyptian pyramids is the Pyramid of Cheops. Each of the four sides of its square base is about a quarter of a kilometer long. The height is equal to a 50-storey skyscraper-147 meters. To build such a colossus, the builders needed 2.3 million stone blocks weighing 2 tons each!
The most powerful waterfall in the world - Iguazu, located in South America. Its height is only 80 m, but 275 jets and streams discharge up to 1,600 cubic meters of water per second. The total width of the water streams is 2700 m. The Guiana Plateau is impassable, so only the most determined explorers could reach the most powerful waterfall in the world. Now it is delivered to him by light helicopter.
In the 13th century, people saw Uranus. In the 19th century, Neptune. Scientists thought there was a ninth planet. In 1930, Clyde Tombaugh proved the existence of the planet Pluto. Many people did not agree with this. Pluto has an unusual orbit, even smaller than the Moon. He also discovered a belt of asteroids that are similar to Pluto, only smaller in size. It turned out that it is simply the largest asteroid of its belt.
In honor of the victory of Zeus over his father, a huge temple was erected on the place where they met in battle. Starting in 776 BC, the famous Olympic Games took place there. According to legend, the first participant was Hercules himself. The games were held in the summer, once every 4 years. From all over the country, people gathered in Olympia to take part in sports competitions. 40,000 fans filled the stands of the huge stadium.
The largest of all the animals currently living on our planet are whales. The length of the record holder-a blue or blue whale-is 25 m, and the mass is up to 150 tons. Like all mammals, whales breathe air with their lungs, feed their young with milk, and even have some fur. Baby blue whales can be considered fast-growing children. Every day, their body length increases by 4.5 cm. and the weight is 50-100 kg.
According to scientists, the Earth was formed 4.6-4.7 billion years ago, and a billion years after that, favorable conditions for the emergence of life were created: normal temperature, the presence of a large amount of oxygen and water in the atmosphere. Solar matter the size of the head of a pin, placed in the atmosphere of our planet, will begin to absorb oxygen and in seconds will destroy all life within a radius of 160 kilometers.
The development of railways was rapid: just a few decades after the opening of the world's first public steam-powered railway (Stockton-Darlington, 1825), there were already more than 16,000 km in England. railway lines! Another half-century passed, and Europe, as well as North America, was densely covered with a network of railways. Now the length of railway lines in the world is more than 1 million kilometers.
